[Music]
security screening done passport control
check a cup of coffee a magazine from
the duty-free store and a short line
later I'm finally on board to play now
just let me buckle my seatbelt live
through the takeoff and some 40 minutes
later I hear my favorite phrase in the
world chicken or fish but it seems that
the question really is to eat or not to
eat I've got to admit I'm a huge fan of
airplane food
but you see my best friend isn't you
can't imagine all the times we argue to
ourselves hoarse about the quality and
taste airline food
honestly one day it started grading on
my nerves and I decided to find out
everything I could about the meals on
airplanes it turns out that airline
companies plan all their meals up to a
year in advance
and when I say plan I mean they count
every single cherry tomato that you'll
later find in your salad you've probably
heard that famous story when American
Airlines managed to save forty thousand
dollars after they removed an itsy-bitsy
olive from each salad on their flights
yep it's all about the right planning
and if you think airplane food is just
some frozen stuff cooked months in
advance
think again wait wait don't say anything
yet let me finish
naturally the food isn't prepared on the
plane either because there's literally
no space to do it onboard besides there
are particular safety standards that
most likely don't include sharp knives
and open fire mm-hmm nope airplane food
is prepared on the ground not far from
the airport large airline catering
companies such as LSG sky chefs can
produce a whopping 15,000 bread rolls an
hour and more than 30,000 sandwiches a
day and mind you they'd work 24 hours a
day 365 days a year
what's even more unexpected for us
simple passengers is that most dishes
are prepared by hand even though some
processes are automated for example they
say LSG sky chefs Frankfurt hire 2,000
five employees who cook eighty five
thousand five hundred meals a day
also the meals get refreshed all the
time according to modern food trends at
the same time your airplane food isn't
exactly super fresh typically your meal
gets prepared ten hours before you take
that first bite but you wouldn't be able
to eat this food right after it's been
cooked on the ground the trick is that
let's say chicken usually leaves the
kitchen only 60% done and steak just 30%
ready after that all the food gets
chilled in special fridges and
transported to the plane in a peculiar
state not completely frozen but not
edible either and the final stage of hot
dish preparation happens on board
interestingly the people responsible for
creating meals usually test the dishes
that are about to appear on the menu
right up in the air well there's a
serious reason for that when you're on
the plane your nose gets dry because of
low humidity this along with the
pressure change during takeoff and even
the constant noise from jet engines
makes your taste buds not as perceptive
as they are on the ground
in other words you perceive no more than
30% of the taste of your food
that's why chefs had to add extra
ingredients such as extra spice extra
salt extra sugar to all the dishes they
cook so remember those chicken wings you
are eating on your last flight they
would set your mouth on fire a few
munched on them in the terminal but
let's get back to our trays with
airplane food if they can't board right
away the meals wait in their own gate
lounge it's not unlike your lounge but
freezing cold and resembling a massive
refrigerator then everything depends on
whether the plane is ready to leave on
time if there's a delay which is
announced in advance the food just stays
in its fridge lounge but what if it's
already been delivered on board in most
cases if the delay is too long the
airlines just dump the load and ask the
catering company for a replacement
shipment oh my what a waste but I must
admit better that than getting food
poisoning mid-flight so let's say
the plane leaves on time takeoff goes
smoothly and several hundred passengers
follow the flight attendants with hungry
eyes no pun intended
that's the cabin crews clue that it's
time to reheat the meals no they don't
shove food trays into microwaves
probably because there are no microwaves
onboard instead they use convection
ovens with fans that blow hot air onto
the meals it helps to prepare the food
pretty fast in about 20 minutes while
your food is steaming in the oven
emitting mouth-watering smells it's time
for drinks now I never ever drink tomato
juice on the ground guess it's not my
cup of tea ha ha
but in flight hole boy give me two or
better three and look at all those
people who all of a sudden decide to
share my newly found love for tomato
juice disappointingly there's no mystery
here as you remember in the dry air
plain air your sinuses get bogged up and
as a result you start to crave salty and
acidic stuff eventually you get your
food and bite into your meal after you
finish there are still some cookies left
on the tray but you're so stuffed you
decide to leave them after all they're
unopened and surely the airline will be
able to serve them on another flight
unfortunately it's against the law to
reuse anything a passenger has add on
their meal tray it may lead to spreading
disease and airline companies don't want
to take chances that's why your cookies
are going to be vacuumed into a special
underground room and burn to avoid such
unnecessary waste share the cookies with
your neighbors or hide them in your
carry-on that chomp on later on the
other hand it was a great surprise for
me to find out that all the dishes I eat
from during the flight even the plastic
ones are reusable the same catering
companies that prepare food for airlines
also have huge dishwashing areas where
they wash and sanitize plates cups and
cutlery interestingly every plane has
three sets of tableware one is used on
board the aircraft the second is in the
dishwasher and the third set is always
ready to replace the stuff that
has not been lost or broken and now last
but not least I want to warn you about
one thing
airline state that the water they used
to make hot drinks is safe to drink and
meets all necessary regulations but the
fact is that the water tanks on planes
often become a playground for all kinds
of bacteria for example when the
Environmental Protection Agency tested
water taken from about 300 aircraft back
in 2004 the researchers discovered that
15% of all the samples contained
coliform bacteria and since these
bacteria are often found in feces they
are typically used to determine how
sanitary the water is it goes without
saying that nowadays after new stricter
rules and regulations have been
introduced the situation has
significantly improved but still from
time to time routine checks prove that
the quality of water on commercial
airplanes is still an issue if you're
still worried boiling the water should
destroy all the pathogens that could be
in it but as they say better safe than
sorry
that's why I always try to get my daily
portion of caffeine in the terminal
before the flight do you like in-flight
meals or do you prefer to bring your own
food onboard the play let me know down
in the comments if you learn something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend stay on the
bright side of life